194A Standards relating to competence and conduct (1) The regulator may set standards for registered providers in matters relating to the competence and conduct of individuals involved in the provision of services in connection with the management of social housing (“relevant individuals”). (2) Standards under subsection (1) may, in particular, require registered providers to comply with specified rules about— (a) the knowledge, skills and experience to be required of relevant individuals, and (b) the conduct to be expected of relevant individuals in their dealings with tenants. (3) Standards under subsection (1) may require registered providers to secure that their senior housing executives and senior housing managers— (a) have a specified qualification in housing management or type of qualification in housing management, or (b) are working towards such a qualification or type of qualification. (4) Standards under subsection (1) may require registered providers to take steps to secure that relevant managers of their services providers— (a) have a specified qualification in housing management or type of qualification in housing management, or (b) are working towards such a qualification or type of qualification. (5) Each of the following is a “relevant manager” of a services provider— (a) if the services provider is a relevant individual, that individual; (b) a senior housing executive of the services provider; (c) a senior housing manager of the services provider. (6) A qualification or type of qualification specified for a senior housing executive may only be— (a) a foundation degree, or (b) a qualification or type of qualification regulated by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation which is of a level not exceeding level 5. (7) A qualification or type of qualification specified for a senior housing manager, or for an individual described in subsection (5) (a) , may only be a qualification or type of qualification regulated by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation which is of a level not exceeding level 4. (8) The references in subsections (6) and (7) to the level of a qualification are to the level assigned to a qualification by virtue of general conditions set and published by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation under section 134 of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009. (9) Except as provided by subsections (3) to (8) , standards under subsection (1) may not require registered providers to comply with rules about the qualifications to be required of relevant individuals. (10) See also section 217A (which makes provision implying terms relating to qualifications into management services agreements).